---
layout: post
title: January 2018
categories:
- blog
---

# Unhappy New Year

New Years Eve and the preceding holidays leading up to it are very difficult times for me. There's this cyclical phenomenon which occurs to my mood and psyche. While most people are eagerly looking forward to spending time with loved ones and making exciting plans, I'm typically encaged in a state of melancholy. It almost sounds absurd and juvenile to admit, but it's a woeful reality I have endured year after year. Depression consumes me and I'm forced to ride out the wave of everyday life, silently screaming from within until the public fervor subsides.

Everyone and their grandmother essentially tries to create some sort of hackneyed new years resolution and I'm no exception. Resolutions fail more often than not because they lack the backing of consistent lifestyle habits behind them. Therefore, whenever motivation dwindles, resolutions fade. In my case, I decided to be proactive and plan out achievable short and long-term goals for 2018 __months_ in advance. 

I had everything visually laid out and nearly complete up until the final weeks of December 2017. **Then misfortune befell me.** The week leading up to Christmas I started to get sick. I had the common cold symptoms like: sneezing, coughing, runny nose, sore throat etc. Midway through these ailments the left side of my lower abdomen became inflamed. I chalked it up to something I ate disagreeing with my stomach (chicken wings), but after enduring the discomfort for several days, I realized something was up.

Since I do not have medical insurance I checked into a local urgent care clinic. The doctor I met with diagnosed me __verbally_ with colitis, but in his documented report penned it as a bacterial intestinal infection. He prescribed me some meds and instructed me to maintain a fluid-only diet. I did exactly as the doctor suggested. It was _grueling_ having 4 days off from work while only consuming liquids such as soups or fruit smoothies for meals.

About half a week later after the meds had depleted the inflammation disappeared only to be replaced by a new sinister culprit. This time around my bladder and groin area were in discomfort. As time progressed the necessity to urinate increased dramatically. The problem even got to the point where I would wake up at odd hours of the night to use the restroom. I wouldn't be able to go back to sleep, creating a horrible sleep debt that altered my mood at work.

Desperate to recover, I ordered many different supplements off of Amazon. The one that showed progress was a **saw palmetto** pill which is supposedly fantastic for the prostate and regulating urination. Although these pills helped, they didn't eradicate the problem. Performing my own self-diagnosis through countless hours of Googling, I concluded that I have a condition call prostatitis (CPPS). It is commonly known and is in my opinion - an ignored condition that a bunch of men battle low-key. 

The condition affects men in a variety of ways from sex drive, genital pain, frequency of urination, lower abdominal and back pain, and slew of other symptoms. Depending on the severity and consistency of the symptoms, CPPS can be absolutely debilitating. I distinctly remember not having the desire to leave my apartment, see anyone, or go anywhere because the pain was so awful. Even the thought of going to the cinema was extremely daunting. Having to sit through and 90 minute to 2 hour film with relentless pelvic pain and having to go the washroom every 5 minutes - no thank you!

A woman who worked in my office building recommended seeing a gastroenterologist for my inflammation. I eventually caved and did so after borrowing some money from my mother. The visit turned out to be a _complete waste of time_ (and money). The doctor merely recommended I see a buddy urologist of his. __That'll be $245 USD please._

With the pain not letting up I decided to visit the same urgent care clinic one more time. I explained to a new doctor about my first visit and how I recently consulted with a gastroenterologist. This new guy prescribed me some of the same meds as last time a couple of new ones to up the ante. I consciously made the effort to avoid taking one antibiotic called **ciprofloxacin** in particular. 

I did take ciprofloxacin to treat my bacterial intestinal infection, but after doing some in-depth research for my self-diagnosed" prostatitis, I discovered that the side effects from taking cipro long-term are abhorring. We're talking disability level or even the tearing of important ligaments in the body. This time around I skipped the cipro and opted for the other meds.  
  
The first day of taking said medications, I had one of the worst experiences of my life. My body began to revolt. I ended up having to urinate over 40 in one night. I'm not even exaggerating. Even after peeing, a few seconds to minutes later, I would have the urge to go _again._ This lasted the entire night and I could not sleep. I was trapped in a literal nightmare. Believe me when I say I would not wish that torture on my worst enemies. 

Needless to say I stopped taking those medications as well and continued my search for more natural supplements with positive reviews on Amazon. This whole ordeal stemming from Christmas to the end of January put a gigantic damper on my excitement and motivation for the near year. All those plans I made now were perpetually put on pause due to complications my body was facing.

I didn't allow it to impede me completely though. I did sign up for a paid Front-End Development company called Open Classrooms and gave it a go for one month. Over time I realized the teaching presentation wasn't up to par with the money I was spending so I canceled it in lieu for another company.

Thus concludes my introduction to 2018. 